# In Ipanema, Rio de Janeiro, seven people observed two round multicolor UFOs over the sea [1991]

*2020-07-07T13:28:02-03:00*

MAY 19th, 1991. Time: 8:30 pm. Duration: 110 minutes. From the roof of a building in the region of Ipanema, city of Rio de Janeiro-RJ, seven people observed for almost two hours two unidentified flying objects next to each other over the high seas, “right in front of Posto 9 – Ipanema”. According to the witnesses, the UFOs were “two luminous balls of green, red and yellow color” that did not move, performing “only rotation movements”. The objects were positioned “relatively lower than the stars” and were moving away “progressively during the period observed towards the high seas directly ahead, decreasing in size due to the increasing distance”. The sighting was carried out with the naked eye and with binoculars, under good visibility conditions with “the stars clearly visible”. Complementary data from COMDABRA [Brazilian Aerospace Defense Command]: “Two aircraft were flying close to the objects, in an attitude of approaching them. One aircraft passed over, and the other underneath. This, when (in the eyes of the observer) approached the objects, it would have caused them to deviate upwards. That aircraft proceeded normally. Surely, it was neither stars nor aircraft (UFOs). At 22:17, one could still observe the fact, but more distant and weaker (smaller). The new information should be passed on to COPM1. “

Cf. ARQUIVO NACIONAL (Brasil). Sistema de Informações do Arquivo Nacional (SIAN). Fundo ‘Objeto Voador Não Identificado (OVNI)’. Código de Referência BR DFANBSB ARX.0.0.316. “Questionário sobre ocorrência de objeto voador não identificado no bairro de Ipanema, Rio de Janeiro-RJ”. Brasília, DF. 1952 a 2015. Último acesso realizado em 27/05/2020.

The BRAZILIAN UFO ARCHIVES website is a private initiative and IS NOT endorsed or sponsored by the Arquivo Nacional do Brasil [see our ‘Info’ page]. *THE ORIGINAL FILE WITH THE CASE REFERRED TO IN THIS TEXT CAN BE FOUND IN THE DOCUMENTAL COLLECTION OF “ARQUIVO NACIONAL DO BRASIL, LOCATED IN THE “OBJETO VOADOR NÃO IDENTIFICADO (OVNI)” FUND, UNDER THE REFERENCE CODE [“Código de Referência”] MENTIONED ABOVE. HERE IS THE LINK TO SEARCH THEIR WEBSITE <
