# Three different airliners report the same UFO sighting [2015]

*2020-05-29T20:29:02-03:00*

JULY, 23rd, 2015. 11:15 am. In a clear sky night over the city of Palmas, capital of the State of Tocantins, a flashing luminous object with no defined shape with colors oscillating between blue and green was spotted by four witnesses from three different airliners. According to them, the object was at an altitude of approximately 34,000 feet, moving in a straight line in the SE / NE direction following air traffic. The sighting lasted about 20 minutes. The official report also included complementary observations made by COMDABRA’s representative [Brazilian Aerospace Defense Command] based on the information provided by the witnesses present on the flights of the airlines involved, and attached to the official report as follows: “AZU ### [flight info omitted] first reported to this Center that it observed traffic at its 3 o’clock position, not informing the distance, it reported a trajectory similar to its and with variation in colors and maneuvers. Then, we were informed by RIO ### [flight info omitted] that it also saw unknown traffic, and that the information passed by AZU ### [flight info omitted] was consistent with what its crew could observe. And the same thing happened to GLO ### [flight info omitted], which also spotted the traffic. AZU ### [flight info omitted] was asked about the weather conditions at the time, [and] it was said that the sky was clear from the position where the traffic was spotted. Finally, AZU ### [flight info omitted], after reporting being followed by more than 100 NM, realized it no longer could observe the traffic to the northeast of the PMS VOR “

Cf. ARQUIVO NACIONAL (Brasil). Sistema de Informações do Arquivo Nacional (SIAN). Fundo ‘Objeto Voador Não Identificado (OVNI)’. Código de Referência BR DFANBSB ARX.0.0.736. “Questionário sobre ocorrência de objeto voador não identificado (ovni) em TOCANTINS“. Brasília, DF. 1952 a 2015. Último acesso realizado em 27/05/2020.

The BRAZILIAN UFO ARCHIVES website is a private initiative and IS NOT endorsed or sponsored by the Arquivo Nacional do Brasil [see our ‘Info’ page]. *THE ORIGINAL FILE WITH THE CASE REFERRED TO IN THIS TEXT CAN BE FOUND IN THE DOCUMENTAL COLLECTION OF “ARQUIVO NACIONAL DO BRASIL, LOCATED IN THE “OBJETO VOADOR NÃO IDENTIFICADO (OVNI)” FUND, UNDER THE REFERENCE CODE [“Código de Referência”] MENTIONED ABOVE. HERE IS THE LINK TO SEARCH THEIR WEBSITE
