# Two airliners report a luminous UFO. One of them is chased [2007]

*2020-06-07T19:39:31-03:00*

OCT 1st, 2007. Time: 3:43 am. Duration: 01 hour. Pilots on flights TAM8077 [from Manaus, Amazonas, to Belém, Pará] and VLO 7421 [from Miami, FL, USA, to Manaus, Amazonas] reported the sighting and also the detection with the TCAS (Traffic Collision Avoidance System) of an unidentified flying object that was very luminous, and moving from East to West at about 39.0000ft in altitude. According to the witnesses, the conditions of visibility were very good, with “clear sky at night”. The UFO followed the TAM8077 flight, forcing the pilot to make an evasive maneuver. Also according to the report by COMDABRA [Brazilian Aerospace Defense Command]: “The pilot of flight TAM8077, SBEG [Aeroporto de Manaus, AMAZONAS] / SBBE [Aeroporto de Belém, Pará] FL390, flying over the sector between the VOR STM and the AMVER position, made an evasive maneuver on the right up to bow 140 to avoid traffic, claiming to have seen traffic at 12 o’clock position and emitting strong light. He also informed that the object was accused in TCAS. The pilot also informed that the referred light followed the flight until close to SBBE [Aeroporto de Belém, Pará] and that he thought it was a space station. Another pilot, on flight VLO 7421, KMIA [INTERNATIONAL from MIAMI-FL-USA]/ SBEG [Aeroporto de Manaus, AMAZONAS] FL350 flying over the sector on the RDL 350 MAN 60NM, also reported seeing a light at the 9 o’clock position, when at that moment there was no traffic in that position”.

Cf. ARQUIVO NACIONAL (Brasil). Sistema de Informações do Arquivo Nacional (SIAN). Fundo ‘Objeto Voador Não Identificado (OVNI)’. Código de Referência BR DFANBSB ARX.0.0.662. “Ocorrência de tráfego hotel na região de Santarém, Pará”. Brasília, DF. 1952 a 2015. Último acesso realizado em 27/05/2020.

The BRAZILIAN UFO ARCHIVES website is a private initiative and IS NOT endorsed or sponsored by the Arquivo Nacional do Brasil [see our ‘Info’ page]. *THE ORIGINAL FILE WITH THE CASE REFERRED TO IN THIS TEXT CAN BE FOUND IN THE DOCUMENTAL COLLECTION OF “ARQUIVO NACIONAL DO BRASIL, LOCATED IN THE “OBJETO VOADOR NÃO IDENTIFICADO (OVNI)” FUND, UNDER THE REFERENCE CODE [“Código de Referência”] MENTIONED ABOVE. HERE IS THE LINK TO SEARCH THEIR WEBSITE
