# The crew of VASP 374 observed a round white UFO near Goiânia-GO [1988]

*2020-07-10T15:50:38-03:00*

*Interrelated case [see the next post]*

Flight VSP 374 – October 3, 1988. Time: 20:30. Duration: 12 minutes. When flying over the region of Goiânia, State of Goiás, during flight VASP 374 from Confins Airport [Belo Horizonte-MG] to the Airport of Goiânia-GO, the aircraft crew spotted an unidentified flying object with a round shape, which ” gave the impression of solidity. Twice the size of a full moon. A compact block of light “. The UFO had a solid white color, and its speed gave an “impression” of being close to the speed of the aircraft, and perhaps “higher than it.” According to the reporting witness, the UFO was about 3,000 feet high, making a West-to-Northwest trajectory. The object “at first [kept] the bow opposite to that of the aircraft. Then it moved to [the position] ‘1-hour’ of the aircraft at bow 330°, having been observed until it disappeared from the side of the aircraft. The aircraft was Confins-Goiânia bow”. The reporting witness noted in the report that he “never saw anything like it”. Complementary data from COMDABRA [Brazilian Aerospace Defense Command]: “I request a recording reservation in the period of 23:28/23:50Z [for] purposes of hearing aircraft reports about UFOs. VRG335 PL/BR FL310 and VSP251 SV / BR FL350 uW10 aircraft Freq. 125.2 MHz. Information received approximately 110NM BRS. VSP 374 CF / GO FL 310 DCT GO / Freq. 124.4 MHz approximately 145 NM GOI “. “[…] Requested contact with CMT VSP 251 and VSP 374 in TF2 348 [for] the purpose of further information and clarification about the fact”. Brasilia, 03 OCT 88.

Cf. ARQUIVO NACIONAL (Brasil). Sistema de Informações do Arquivo Nacional (SIAN). Fundo ‘Objeto Voador Não Identificado (OVNI)’. Código de Referência BR DFANBSB ARX.0.0.266. “Ovni: avistamento de objeto voador não identificado entre Salvador e Brasília.”. Brasília, DF. 1952 a 2015. Último acesso realizado em 27/05/2020.

The BRAZILIAN UFO ARCHIVES website is a private initiative and IS NOT endorsed or sponsored by the Arquivo Nacional do Brasil [see our ‘Info’ page]. *THE ORIGINAL FILE WITH THE CASE REFERRED TO IN THIS TEXT CAN BE FOUND IN THE DOCUMENTAL COLLECTION OF “ARQUIVO NACIONAL DO BRASIL, LOCATED IN THE “OBJETO VOADOR NÃO IDENTIFICADO (OVNI)” FUND, UNDER THE REFERENCE CODE [“Código de Referência”] MENTIONED ABOVE. HERE IS THE LINK TO SEARCH THEIR WEBSITE <
