# A UFO was sighted hovering over Londrina’s Airport [2011]

*2020-06-05T19:10:59-03:00*

JULY 16th, 2011. At 8:15 pm. Three witnesses spotted an unidentified flying object “practically stopped” about 20 nautical miles from the east sector of Londrina Airport. The UFO consisted of flashing lights in blue, red and green and it was moving slowly from North to South. The three witnesses who spotted the UFO hovering over the Londrina’s Airport for 8 minutes are two Airport Approach Control Center employees and a commercial pilot. Their reports coincide, as additional notes from the COMDABRA’s report [Brazilian Aerospace Defense Command] show: “A COLLEAGUE FROM APP-LO, CALLED APP-LO ABOUT THE SIGHTING OF THE UFO. I WAS ABLE TO SEE MANY DETAILS. THE TIB-5641, FROM SBGR [Guarulhos Airport] TO SBLO [Londrina Airport], ALSO SAW THE UFO, AS IT APPROACHED LONDRINA’S AIRSTRIP 31. I KNOW THERE ARE SOME AERODROMES WITH A BALIZATION FOR THE NIGHT, NEAR LONDRINA BUT THEY ARE NOT APPROVED FOR THIS OPERATION; THE UFO MAY  BE AN AIRPLANE, BUT AS IT WAS NOT IN CONTACT WITH LONDRINA I DECIDED TO REPORT”.

Cf. ARQUIVO NACIONAL (Brasil). Sistema de Informações do Arquivo Nacional (SIAN). Fundo ‘Objeto Voador Não Identificado (OVNI)’. Código de Referência BR DFANBSB ARX.0.0.678. “Questionário sobre ocorrência de objeto voador não identificado (ovni), de 16 de julho de 2011″. Brasília, DF. 1952 a 2015. Último acesso realizado em 27/05/2020.

The BRAZILIAN UFO ARCHIVES website is a private initiative and IS NOT endorsed or sponsored by the Arquivo Nacional do Brasil [see our ‘Info’ page]. *THE ORIGINAL FILE WITH THE CASE REFERRED TO IN THIS TEXT CAN BE FOUND IN THE DOCUMENTAL COLLECTION OF “ARQUIVO NACIONAL DO BRASIL, LOCATED IN THE “OBJETO VOADOR NÃO IDENTIFICADO (OVNI)” FUND, UNDER THE REFERENCE CODE [“Código de Referência”] MENTIONED ABOVE. HERE IS THE LINK TO SEARCH THEIR WEBSITE
