# A pilot and an air traffic controller reported a UFO near Curitiba-PR [1978]

*2020-07-15T10:58:27-03:00*

September 8th, 1978. Time: 23: 30Z. The pilot of the PT-JKQ aircraft flying on the Belo Horizonte-MG to Curitiba-PR route, reported to the Air Traffic Control of Brasília-DF, that he was “seeing a very intense light with color variations, in the position ’01-hour ‘, 2NM, appearing to be between 8,000 and 10,000ft with reference to his traffic”. At 00:10Z, the air traffic monitoring of PT-JKQ was already under the jurisdiction of Curitiba Control, to carry out the descent and landing procedures. At that time, a TWR operator in Curitiba stated that he “was also seeing a luminous object in the west sector of the aerodrome (Radial 280) and that it gave him the impression of varying its position and luminous intensity”. Contacts were made with another aircraft flying in the region, the VASP VP151C flying from São Paulo-SP to Porto Alegre-RS, and the pilot of this aircraft stated that he was viewing only “the planet Venus” at that sector and time.

Cf. ARQUIVO NACIONAL (Brasil). Sistema de Informações do Arquivo Nacional (SIAN). Fundo ‘Objeto Voador Não Identificado (OVNI)’. Código de Referência BR DFANBSB ARX.0.0.188. “Comunicação de ocorrência de objeto luminoso não identificado na rota Belo Horizonte-Curitiba”. Brasília, DF. 1952 a 2015. Último acesso realizado em 27/05/2020.

The BRAZILIAN UFO ARCHIVES website is a private initiative and IS NOT endorsed or sponsored by the Arquivo Nacional do Brasil [see our ‘Info’ page]. *THE ORIGINAL FILE WITH THE CASE REFERRED TO IN THIS TEXT CAN BE FOUND IN THE DOCUMENTAL COLLECTION OF “ARQUIVO NACIONAL DO BRASIL, LOCATED IN THE “OBJETO VOADOR NÃO IDENTIFICADO (OVNI)” FUND, UNDER THE REFERENCE CODE [“Código de Referência”] MENTIONED ABOVE. HERE IS THE LINK TO SEARCH THEIR WEBSITE <
