# A couple observed a group of lights flying low in Brasília-DF [1995]

*2020-06-30T21:26:54-03:00*

JAN 15th, 1995. Time: 23h50. Duration: 5 to 10 minutes. A couple in Brasília, Distrito Federal, saw a group of lights that moved together, “constituting a single set”. According to the witnesses, there were about 4 yellow lights and other one more prominent from the others. The set of lights had the “size of an average aircraft”, also flying at a speed equivalent to a medium-sized aircraft, like the “Bandeirante” model. Also according to the witnesses’ reports, the UFOs were “initially coming from the direction of Lago Paranoá, flying over its edge, then through Asa Sul and circling to the South”, coming from the West. The sighting observers also said that the behavior of the unknown objects was “similar to the air traffic in circulation to the Airport”, and that they observed the event with binoculars, having tried to take photographs three times. Also according to the report by COMDABRA [Brazilian Aerospace Defense Command]: “The TWR [Control Tower] and APP BR [Brasília Airport Approach Control] did not [have] anything unusual to report. Only commercial traffic after 10 pm and no reports or observations that would alter the routine “.

Cf. ARQUIVO NACIONAL (Brasil). Sistema de Informações do Arquivo Nacional (SIAN). Fundo ‘Objeto Voador Não Identificado (OVNI)’. Código de Referência BR DFANBSB ARX.0.0.390. “Questionário sobre a ocorrência de objeto voador não identificado próximo ao Lago Paranoá, Brasília, Distrito Federal”. Brasília, DF. 1952 a 2015. Último acesso realizado em 27/05/2020.

The BRAZILIAN UFO ARCHIVES website is a private initiative and IS NOT endorsed or sponsored by the Arquivo Nacional do Brasil [see our ‘Info’ page]. *THE ORIGINAL FILE WITH THE CASE REFERRED TO IN THIS TEXT CAN BE FOUND IN THE DOCUMENTAL COLLECTION OF “ARQUIVO NACIONAL DO BRASIL, LOCATED IN THE “OBJETO VOADOR NÃO IDENTIFICADO (OVNI)” FUND, UNDER THE REFERENCE CODE [“Código de Referência”] MENTIONED ABOVE. HERE IS THE LINK TO SEARCH THEIR WEBSITE <
