# A large UFO followed a military aircraft near Maricá-RJ [1991]

*2020-07-07T12:27:55-03:00*

JUNE, 26th 1991. Time: 13:53. Duration: 10 minutes. Four military men of the Brazilian Air Force, when flying over the region of Maricá, in the State of Rio de Janeiro, observed an unidentified flying object with the shape of a “very large, pointed star, 8 to 10 times brighter than the VARIG [an airliner]”. Also according to the reporting witness, the UFO emitted intense white lights, but after the Campos [RJ] region until it reached the Vitória [ES] region it turned red. The UFO moved at the same speed as the military aircraft, about 3NM [nautical miles] away, at an altitude of 1,000 meters above the aircraft, and always in the same “11 o’clock” position in relation to the right wing (Northwest) “of the military aircraft”. Also according to the report, the UFO “when its color changed, the intensity of its brightness decreased”. The sighting was done in good visibility conditions, with “clear sky above and a very clear moon” and “it was photographed by CTA TEN […] with objective lens”. These photo files have not been shared with this  file case. Complementary data from COMDABRA [Brazilian Aerospace Defense Command]: “There was also observation by VARIG 320 in FL 310 [31.000ft] UA 314 (P-95) in contact with ACC-BRASILIA at 127.3 VARIG 124.2 Constant lights – only monochromatic light.”

Cf. ARQUIVO NACIONAL (Brasil). Sistema de Informações do Arquivo Nacional (SIAN). Fundo ‘Objeto Voador Não Identificado (OVNI)’. Código de Referência BR DFANBSB ARX.0.0.319. “Questionário sobre ocorrência de objeto voador não identificado na região de Maricá, Estado do Rio de Janeiro”. Brasília, DF. 1952 a 2015. Último acesso realizado em 27/05/2020.

The BRAZILIAN UFO ARCHIVES website is a private initiative and IS NOT endorsed or sponsored by the Arquivo Nacional do Brasil [see our ‘Info’ page]. *THE ORIGINAL FILE WITH THE CASE REFERRED TO IN THIS TEXT CAN BE FOUND IN THE DOCUMENTAL COLLECTION OF “ARQUIVO NACIONAL DO BRASIL, LOCATED IN THE “OBJETO VOADOR NÃO IDENTIFICADO (OVNI)” FUND, UNDER THE REFERENCE CODE [“Código de Referência”] MENTIONED ABOVE. HERE IS THE LINK TO SEARCH THEIR WEBSITE <
