# During a flight, two pilots observed a pulsating red and white UFO over Pará [1996]

*2020-06-29T18:50:47-03:00*

MARCH 18th, 1996. Time: 21h14. Duration: 15 minutes. A pilot and a co-pilot reported the sighting, with the naked eye, of an unidentified flying object when flying from Belo Horizonte [State of Minas Gerais] to Belém [State of Pará]. According to the pilots’ report, the UFO was a “pulsating light” with the size “twice that of the Morning Star”. According to them, the color of the UFO varied between red and white, and its speed was approximately 420 kt [777 km / h]. The unknown object followed a horizontal path, then a vertical one. According to the description of the pilots in the COMDABRA’s report [Brazilian Aerospace Defense Command], “when it was levelled, [we] observed a light rising, crossing approximately FL 240 [24,000 feet] or FL 250, in its two o’clock position”. The pilots also reported that the object maintained a distance from their aircraft, between 2NM and 5NM [nautical miles], and that the position of the UFO in relation to the cardinal points was “two to three hours from the azimuth 280° to 300°”. Still in the observation of the COMDABRA’s report, it is stated that: “The commander […] informed that this is the fourth observation in his career in the regions of Belo Horizonte and Belém do Pará, also”.

Cf. ARQUIVO NACIONAL (Brasil). Sistema de Informações do Arquivo Nacional (SIAN). Fundo ‘Objeto Voador Não Identificado (OVNI)’. Código de Referência BR DFANBSB ARX.0.0.410. “Questionário sobre a ocorrência de objeto voador entre Belo Horizonte, Estado de Minas Gerais e Belém, Estado do Pará”. Brasília, DF. 1952 a 2015. Último acesso realizado em 27/05/2020.

The BRAZILIAN UFO ARCHIVES website is a private initiative and IS NOT endorsed or sponsored by the Arquivo Nacional do Brasil [see our ‘Info’ page]. *THE ORIGINAL FILE WITH THE CASE REFERRED TO IN THIS TEXT CAN BE FOUND IN THE DOCUMENTAL COLLECTION OF “ARQUIVO NACIONAL DO BRASIL, LOCATED IN THE “OBJETO VOADOR NÃO IDENTIFICADO (OVNI)” FUND, UNDER THE REFERENCE CODE [“Código de Referência”] MENTIONED ABOVE. HERE IS THE LINK TO SEARCH THEIR WEBSITE <
