# Two pilots in two different flights reported the same UFO over Governador Valadares-MG [1979]

*2020-07-16T23:13:53-03:00*

November 29, 1979. Time: 11:20pm. Duration: 6 minutes. When maneuvering his aircraft over the region between the cities of Governador Valadares and Belorizonte, in the State of Minas Gerais, at about 31,000 ft of altitude, the QD 555 pilot spotted an unidentified flying object in its “1-hour” position . At the same time, the pilot of another aircraft, the VP 377 at about 50 NM from Piraí at 24,000 ft, confirms the information from the QD-555. According to the QD-555 pilot, the UFO changed color. From red, to orange, white, and it had already changed his altitude. When already 30 NM from Belo Horizonte-MG, the pilot of the QD-555 continued to see the object in the “1-hour” position, this time, with less altitude. The other aircraft, the VP 377, when closer to Piraí, still at altitude 24.000ft, continued to confirm the information of the QD-555, seeing this time the UFO in its “2-hour” position. The VC 377 pilot reported that the UFO performed acrobatic maneuvers, changing altitude and color many times. At 11:26pm, the QD-555 pilot reported that the UFO had disappeared.

Cf. ARQUIVO NACIONAL (Brasil). Sistema de Informações do Arquivo Nacional (SIAN). Fundo ‘Objeto Voador Não Identificado (OVNI)’. Código de Referência BR DFANBSB ARX.0.0.183. “Casos conhecidos de ovnis registrados pelo Cindacta I entre 21 de maio de 1977 e 23 de agosto de 1978”. Brasília, DF. 1952 a 2015. Último acesso realizado em 27/05/2020.

The BRAZILIAN UFO ARCHIVES website is a private initiative and IS NOT endorsed or sponsored by the Arquivo Nacional do Brasil [see our ‘Info’ page]. *THE ORIGINAL FILE WITH THE CASE REFERRED TO IN THIS TEXT CAN BE FOUND IN THE DOCUMENTAL COLLECTION OF “ARQUIVO NACIONAL DO BRASIL, LOCATED IN THE “OBJETO VOADOR NÃO IDENTIFICADO (OVNI)” FUND, UNDER THE REFERENCE CODE [“Código de Referência”] MENTIONED ABOVE. HERE IS THE LINK TO SEARCH THEIR WEBSITE <
