# A pilot and two air controllers sighted a spheric UFO near Santarém [2008]

*2020-06-07T14:02:52-03:00*

OCT 17th, 2008. Time: 2:34 am. Duration: 60 seconds. Under good visibility conditions and a clear sky, two air traffic operators from the Control Tower of Santarém Airport (State of Pará) and another pilot of the GOL 1991 flight from Belém (Capital of Pará) to Santarém, spotted with the naked eye a spherical ball-sized red unidentified flying object. According to the three witnesses’ reports, the UFO traveled at high speed, moving from Northwest to Northeast at an altitude not specified by observers. The ‘red to dark-red’ object had the appearance of a falling star according to the report. Following is the report by COMDABRA [Brazilian Aerospace Defense Command] informing the additional observations given by one of the witnesses: “AT 0534UTC A FLASH OF FIRE (FALLING STAR LIKE) WAS SEEN BY THE TWR / APP-SN, THEN THE OBJECT FOLLOWED APPARENTLY LEVELING FROM THE NORTHWEST DIRECTION IN A NEARBY ROUTE TO PROTECTION 070. AT THIS TIME, THE FLIGHT GOL 1991 WAS NEARBY AND THE PILOT WAS REQUESTED TO LOOK IN HIS 11 HOURS POSITION,  AND HE COULD ALSO OBSERVE THE OBJECT TOO: OBSERVATION PERIOD OF APPROXIMATELY 45 TO 60 SECONDS. “

Cf. ARQUIVO NACIONAL (Brasil). Sistema de Informações do Arquivo Nacional (SIAN). Fundo ‘Objeto Voador Não Identificado (OVNI)’. Código de Referência BR DFANBSB ARX.0.0.666. “Questionário sobre ocorrência de tráfego hotel na região de Santarém, Pará”. Brasília, DF. 1952 a 2015. Último acesso realizado em 27/05/2020.

The BRAZILIAN UFO ARCHIVES website is a private initiative and IS NOT endorsed or sponsored by the Arquivo Nacional do Brasil [see our ‘Info’ page]. *THE ORIGINAL FILE WITH THE CASE REFERRED TO IN THIS TEXT CAN BE FOUND IN THE DOCUMENTAL COLLECTION OF “ARQUIVO NACIONAL DO BRASIL, LOCATED IN THE “OBJETO VOADOR NÃO IDENTIFICADO (OVNI)” FUND, UNDER THE REFERENCE CODE [“Código de Referência”] MENTIONED ABOVE. HERE IS THE LINK TO SEARCH THEIR WEBSITE
