# Three men reported a close encounter with a UFO in a quarry in Votorantim-SP [1974]

*2020-07-18T14:05:46-03:00*

MAY 28th, 1974. In the Pedreira da “Placa” region, in Vila Santa Helena, in the city of Votorantim, State of São Paulo, three people reported the sighting of a UFO. Witnesses: Jaime Belizário. Salvador Pinto da Silva. Mauro Bulgari.

## Translation of the 3 Reports given to the local Police Department:

## Jaime Belizário:

“When he was “working as a truck driver in the “Placa” Quarry in Santa Helena, about 11:10 pm, his colleague Rafael asked him to come see a strange object. Later, his colleague Mario was also warned and then the three of them began to wait for the object to appear. The witness was with his truck standing on top of a ravine and when the object appeared, he shouted at Rafael to stop the machine. The three men went down on the ground and started to appreciate the object. Four or five times it passed over them. On one occasion, the object stopped over where they were; the object floated in the air; the witness noticed that the object had the shape of a “Ferris wheel”, with green, red and yellow lights on the edges. It was noticeable that it had a small volume at the bottom, and the vision was impaired because of the spotlights in the quarry. The color of the object’s body could not be ascertained. When the object floated, it made no noise. The witness ‘yelled at it’ to come down, then they heard a turbine noise and the device took the course of Inhaíba-SP. The lights or even the sound had no effect on the deponent; the lights were identical in intensity to the reflectors, but in different colors, as he said; the device never landed on the floor and left no trace; the first time you saw the object, it was about 100 meters from the ground; when it floated on top of the witness and his colleagues, it was at a height of 100 meters, or less; he has been working in the same quarry for three years and has never seen anything like that. He said nothing more. Read and found compliant, it will be signed. I, A. B. Registrar who typed it.”

## Salvador Pinto da Silva: 

“He was on duty at the “Placa” Quarry, when around 01:40 am he went up with the loaded truck, bound for the crusher, and when he reached the end of the climb, he noticed a strange object, about 100 meters high, which came in the direction of the cement factory towards the television towers of S. Francisco Farm. He only noticed that the object had several lights, in green, red and yellow colors, one of which blinked a lot. He did not notice the shape and if the device made any sound. As the truck was moving, he could not observe the object very well. In the next morning he was informed that other people working in the quarry had also seen the same object. That was the first time he noticed the object in that vicinity. He said nothing more. Read and found to be in compliance, it is signed. I, AB Registrar, typed it.”

## João Bulgari: 

“During the night, I was working with the truck at the “Placa” Quarry, in Vila Santa Helena, when about 01:00 am, Rafael told João that he had seen a strange object above the Quarry around 10:00 pm. The declarant, in addition to Rafael and “Paraná” [Jaime], tried to observe the object. Three times the declarant saw the object pass over the Quarry, and the last time it stopped right above the  Quarry. He noticed that the object was circular in shape, with lights on the edge, but he was unable to distinguish which side that was the front and which one was the back side. The object had several lights, and the witness couldn’t tell how many. On both sides they were yellow, green and red. The device emitted a turbine hum, very soft and when it came out it increased the sound volume. The witness and the others were on the floor, because they had stopped working, when “Paraná” [Jaime] jokingly shouted at the object to appear and come down. At that moment, the device increased the noise of the turbine, going off towards Votorantim. The sound of the turbine or even the lights, did not have any effect on the reporting witness and his companions. The witness has no clue on how high the object was above the ground and he didn’t even notice if the object was manned. The lights on the device were weaker than the spotlights used to illuminate the quarry. He has been working there for three and a half years in this same quarry, and has never noticed this fact before. He said nothing more. Read and found compliant, it will be signed. I, A. B. Registrar who typed it.”

Cf. ARQUIVO NACIONAL (Brasil). Sistema de Informações do Arquivo Nacional (SIAN). Fundo ‘Objeto Voador Não Identificado (OVNI)’. Código de Referência BR DFANBSB ARX.0.0.147. “Cópia de sindicância prévia elaborada pela delegacia de polícia de Votorantim”. Brasília, DF. 1952 a 2015. Último acesso realizado em 27/05/2020.

The BRAZILIAN UFO ARCHIVES website is a private initiative and IS NOT endorsed or sponsored by the Arquivo Nacional do Brasil [see our ‘Info’ page]. *THE ORIGINAL FILE WITH THE CASE REFERRED TO IN THIS TEXT CAN BE FOUND IN THE DOCUMENTAL COLLECTION OF “ARQUIVO NACIONAL DO BRASIL, LOCATED IN THE “OBJETO VOADOR NÃO IDENTIFICADO (OVNI)” FUND, UNDER THE REFERENCE CODE [“Código de Referência”] MENTIONED ABOVE. HERE IS THE LINK TO SEARCH THEIR WEBSITE <
